README.md, before:

# PesoScan: Smart Counterfeit Detection for Philippine Peso Bills

![PesoScan Logo](./assets/logo.svg)

## Overview

PesoScan is a web-based counterfeit detection platform for Philippine peso bills, combining a ReactJS frontend with a Python backend that integrates YOLOv8 for object detection and Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) for classification. The system allows users to scan or upload images of Philippine banknotes and receive automated authenticity classification.

## System Architecture

### Frontend (ReactJS)
- **Design Philosophy**: Minimalist, professional, user-friendly
- **Color Scheme**: Dark blue/teal primary, white/silver accents
- **Typography**: Roboto/Montserrat
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-first approach

### Backend (Python/FastAPI)
- **Object Detection**: YOLOv8 for peso bill localization
- **Classification**: CNN for authenticity determination
- **API**: RESTful endpoints for image processing

## Features

### Core Functionality
- 📸 **Live Camera Scanning**: Real-time peso bill capture
- 📁 **Image Upload**: Support for various image formats
- 🔍 **AI Detection**: YOLOv8 + CNN classification pipeline
- 📊 **Confidence Scoring**: Percentage-based authenticity confidence
- 📱 **Responsive Design**: Works on desktop and mobile devices

### Pages
1. **Landing Page**: System introduction with scan/upload options
2. **Scan/Upload Page**: Camera interface and file upload
3. **Results Page**: Classification results with visual feedback
4. **History Page**: Previous scan records (optional)
5. **About/Help Page**: System information and FAQs

## Project Structure

```
pesoscan/
├── frontend/           # ReactJS application
├── backend/           # Python FastAPI server
├── assets/           # Logos, images, and design assets
├── docs/            # Documentation and thesis materials
└── README.md        # This file
```

## Tech Stack

### Frontend
- **Framework**: ReactJS
- **Styling**: CSS3 with custom design system
- **Camera**: WebRTC for live video capture
- **HTTP Client**: Axios for API communication
- **Routing**: React Router

### Backend
- **Framework**: FastAPI
- **ML Libraries**: YOLOv8, TensorFlow/PyTorch
- **Image Processing**: OpenCV, PIL
- **API Documentation**: Swagger/OpenAPI

### AI/ML
- **Object Detection**: YOLOv8 (Ultralytics)
- **Classification**: Custom CNN model
- **Training Data**: Philippine peso bill dataset

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ and npm
- Python 3.8+
- Git

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/pesoscan.git
   cd pesoscan
   ```

2. **Set up the frontend**
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   npm install
   npm start
   ```

3. **Set up the backend**
   ```bash
   cd backend
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   python main.py
   ```

4. **Access the application**
   - Frontend: http://localhost:3000
   - Backend API: http://localhost:8000
   - API Documentation: http://localhost:8000/docs

## System Workflow

1. **User Input**: Upload or scan peso bill image via ReactJS frontend
2. **API Request**: Image sent to Python backend API
3. **Detection**: YOLOv8 detects and crops peso bill from image
4. **Classification**: CNN analyzes cropped bill for authenticity
5. **Response**: Backend returns JSON with authenticity decision and confidence
6. **Display**: Frontend shows professional results with visual indicators

## Design Guidelines

### Visual Identity
- **Logo**: Peso symbol (₱) + eye icon
- **Colors**: 
  - Primary: Dark Blue (#1e3a8a)
  - Secondary: Teal (#0d9488)
  - Accent: White (#ffffff), Silver (#94a3b8)
- **Typography**: Clean, modern fonts (Roboto/Montserrat)

### UI Principles
- **Minimalist**: Clean backgrounds, limited color palette
- **Professional**: Consistent branding, uncluttered layouts
- **User-Friendly**: Clear buttons, intuitive navigation
- **Trust-Oriented**: Security-focused design elements

## Contributing

This is a thesis project for academic purposes. For questions or collaboration, please contact the development team.

## License

This project is for educational and research purposes. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

## Acknowledgments

- Philippine peso bill security features research
- YOLOv8 by Ultralytics
- React community and ecosystem
- FastAPI framework

---

**Note**: This system is designed for educational and research purposes. Always verify currency authenticity through official banking channels for important transactions.

Commit message:

Update README: replace CNN references with ResNet-50 & MobileNetV3 hybrid model

README.md, after:

# PesoScan: Smart Counterfeit Detection for Philippine Peso Bills

![PesoScan Logo](./assets/logo.svg)

## Overview

PesoScan is a web-based counterfeit detection platform for Philippine peso bills, combining a ReactJS frontend with a Python backend that integrates YOLOv8 for object detection and a hybrid ResNet-50 & MobileNetV3 architecture for classification. The system allows users to scan or upload images of Philippine banknotes and receive automated authenticity classification.

## System Architecture

### Frontend (ReactJS)
- **Design Philosophy**: Minimalist, professional, user-friendly
- **Color Scheme**: Dark blue/teal primary, white/silver accents
- **Typography**: Roboto/Montserrat
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-first approach

### Backend (Python/FastAPI)
- **Object Detection**: YOLOv8 for peso bill localization
- **Classification**: Hybrid ResNet-50 & MobileNetV3 for authenticity determination
- **API**: RESTful endpoints for image processing

## Features

### Core Functionality
- 📸 **Live Camera Scanning**: Real-time peso bill capture
- 📁 **Image Upload**: Support for various image formats
- 🔍 **AI Detection**: YOLOv8 + CNN classification pipeline
- 📊 **Confidence Scoring**: Percentage-based authenticity confidence
- 📱 **Responsive Design**: Works on desktop and mobile devices

### Pages
1. **Landing Page**: System introduction with scan/upload options
2. **Scan/Upload Page**: Camera interface and file upload
3. **Results Page**: Classification results with visual feedback
4. **History Page**: Previous scan records (optional)
5. **About/Help Page**: System information and FAQs

## Project Structure

```
pesoscan/
├── frontend/           # ReactJS application
├── backend/           # Python FastAPI server
├── assets/           # Logos, images, and design assets
├── docs/            # Documentation and thesis materials
└── README.md        # This file
```

## Tech Stack

### Frontend
- **Framework**: ReactJS
- **Styling**: CSS3 with custom design system
- **Camera**: WebRTC for live video capture
- **HTTP Client**: Axios for API communication
- **Routing**: React Router

### Backend
- **Framework**: FastAPI
- **ML Libraries**: YOLOv8, TensorFlow/PyTorch
- **Image Processing**: OpenCV, PIL
- **API Documentation**: Swagger/OpenAPI

### AI/ML
- **Object Detection**: YOLOv8 (Ultralytics)
- **Classification**: Hybrid ResNet-50 & MobileNetV3 with Transfer Learning
- **Training Data**: Philippine peso bill dataset

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ and npm
- Python 3.8+
- Git

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/pesoscan.git
   cd pesoscan
   ```

2. **Set up the frontend**
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   npm install
   npm start
   ```

3. **Set up the backend**
   ```bash
   cd backend
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   python main.py
   ```

4. **Access the application**
   - Frontend: http://localhost:3000
   - Backend API: http://localhost:8000
   - API Documentation: http://localhost:8000/docs

## System Workflow

1. **User Input**: Upload or scan peso bill image via ReactJS frontend
2. **API Request**: Image sent to Python backend API
3. **Detection**: YOLOv8 detects and crops peso bill from image
4. **Classification**: Hybrid ResNet-50 & MobileNetV3 analyzes cropped bill for authenticity
5. **Response**: Backend returns JSON with authenticity decision and confidence
6. **Display**: Frontend shows professional results with visual indicators

## Design Guidelines

### Visual Identity
- **Logo**: Peso symbol (₱) + eye icon
- **Colors**: 
  - Primary: Dark Blue (#1e3a8a)
  - Secondary: Teal (#0d9488)
  - Accent: White (#ffffff), Silver (#94a3b8)
- **Typography**: Clean, modern fonts (Roboto/Montserrat)

### UI Principles
- **Minimalist**: Clean backgrounds, limited color palette
- **Professional**: Consistent branding, uncluttered layouts
- **User-Friendly**: Clear buttons, intuitive navigation
- **Trust-Oriented**: Security-focused design elements

## Contributing

This is a thesis project for academic purposes. For questions or collaboration, please contact the development team.

## License

This project is for educational and research purposes. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

## Acknowledgments

- Philippine peso bill security features research
- YOLOv8 by Ultralytics
- React community and ecosystem
- FastAPI framework

---

**Note**: This system is designed for educational and research purposes. Always verify currency authenticity through official banking channels for important transactions.
